---
title: Known issues
sidebar_label: Known issues
sidebar_position: 6
description: >
  Download resources for the Leo Rover including hardware specs, software,
  wheels, addons, and more>
---

Here's a list of known issues and proposed ways how to tackle them.

Normally, we're trying our best to fix any issues as soon as possible, but not
all of them can be fixed just like that.

<ImageZoom
  loading="eager"
  src="/img/robots/leo/documentation/rover-drowned-erc.webp"
  alt="Flooded Leo Rover during ERC competition"
  width="1000"
  height="563"
  figStyle={{
    width: 600,
  }}
/>

## Tires

### Tires come off

The tires are made of soft rubber and tend to grip too much on soft surfaces
like grass, carpets, etc. Given the Rover relies on skid steering, the tires may
come off the wheel rims when turning.

**Fix 1**: Glue the tires to rims using a cyanoacrylate (minute) glue.

**Fix 2**: Add more layers of sponge in the tires to make them more stiff. This
lowers the contact area between the wheels and the ground, which, in turn,
lowers the wheel traction. It may fix the problem on some terrains.

### Wheels lift during zero-radius turning

Sometimes one of the front wheels would lift up when the Rover turns in place on
soft surfaces like grass, carpets, etc. As the opposite wheel is blocked,
there's a momentum of force acting on the Rover suspension beam and lifting the
wheel.

<ImageZoom
  src="/img/robots/leo/documentation/rover-wheel-lift.webp"
  alt="Leo Rover lifting one of its wheels"
  width="1449"
  height="887"
  figStyle={{
    width: 500,
  }}
/>

**Fix 1**: Lessen the grip. For ex. let the Rover drive on a dusty surface first
or cover the tires in Power Tape.

**Fix 2** (sort of): After finishing each turn, push the 0,0 command to the
rover (release the joystick). This will let the rover level the wheels thanks to
the force of gravity.

### Wheels squeak when driving

When the wheel rim is not 100% coaxial with the wheel bearings, the torque plate
teeth act as an elastic joint to make it a bit easier for the motors. Then, the
teeth rub in the rim sockets and tend to squeak.

**Fix**: Lube the teeth with grease, oil, anything.

### Excessive friction in one of the wheels

One of the wheels acts odd compared to the others - is slower, more noisy or
stuck.

**Fix**: Check the wheel cap, most probably the encoder cables touch the encoder
magnet and block the motor shaft.

## Network

### Unstable connection in crowded areas

As the Rover access point relies on 2.4 GHz wifi, the connection can become
unstable in areas full of people and devices, for ex. trade shows, due to
crowded wifi bands.

**Fix**: Use 5GHz modem built-in the RaspberryPi. For ex. connect the Rover to
external 5GHz network and connect to the UI via router.

<LinkButton docId="leo-rover/guides/connect-to-network" />

## Software

The joystick in the UI doesn't respond

**Fix**: Don't use Apple devices.

### Rover rotating in odometry without physically moving

When completing the odometry part of tutorial about autonomous navigation, the
rover seems to rotate in odometry reading, without actually moving. Reason for
that behavior is IMU readings offset - it may provide data indicating the rover
moving in the Z axis without the real movement.

**Fix**: Calibrate IMU to eliminate the offset from the readings.

<LinkButton docId="leo-rover/guides/imu-calibration" />
